Add MVP documentation (#42147)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/architecture/mixed-version-proxy.md

---
reviewers:
- jpbetz
title: Mixed Version Proxy
content_type: concept
weight: 220
---

<!-- overview -->
{{< feature-state state="alpha"  for_k8s_version="v1.28" >}}

Kubernetes {{< skew currentVersion >}} includes an alpha feature that lets a
{{< glossary_tooltip text="API Server" term_id="kube-apiserver" >}}

> proxy a resource requests to other _peer_ API server. This is useful when there are multiple

Reviewer: ```suggestion
proxy a resource requests to other _peer_ API server.s This is useful when there are multiple
```

> proxy a resource request to a different _peer_ API server. This is useful when there are multiple

Reviewer 2: “a API server”? Usually “an API server” (I prefer “a kube-apiserver”, because this is a feature of _our_ implementation and not a generic aspect of the Kubernetes API).

# optional flags for this feature
--peer-advertise-ip=`IP of this kube-apiserver that should be used by peers to proxy requests`
--peer-advertise-port=`port of this kube-apiserver that should be used by peers to proxy requests`

# …and other flags as usual
```

### Proxy transport and authentication between API servers {#transport-and-authn}

* The source kube-apiserver reuses the [existing APIserver client authentication flags](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubernetes/configure-aggregation-layer/#kubernetes-apiserver-client-authentication) `--proxy-client-cert-file` and `--proxy-client-key-file` to present its identity that will be verified by its peer (the destination kube-apiserver). The destination API server verifies that peer connection based on the configuration you specify using the `--requestheader-client-ca-file` command line argument. 

* To authenticate the destination server's serving certs, you must configure a certificate authority bundle by specifying the `--peer-ca-file` command line argument to the **source** API server.

### Configuration for peer API server connectivity

> To find the network location of the peer kube-apiserver, you use the 
> `--peer-advertise-ip` and `--peer-advertise-port` command line arguments to kube-apiserver or specify 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set the network location of a kube-apiserver that peers it's will use to proxy requests, you use the 
`--peer-advertise-ip` and `--peer-advertise-port` command line arguments to kube-apiserver or specify 
```

> these fields in the API server configuration file.

Reviewer 2: :thought_balloon: 

- you can only have one peer
- you can have more than one peer, but you need to bring your own load balancer
- you can repeat `--peer-advertise-ip` as many times as you like

For beta, let's make it clear which of these is meant. Optionally for alpha too.

Reviewer: The intent is for apiserver A to advertise it's own IP to other apiservers so that the other apiserver know which IP to proxy requests to when proxying to A.

Reviewer: https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/42147#discussion_r1275525956 was an attempt to clarify this, but it probably still needs work.

Reviewer 2: I'm guessing this is an etcd-internals discovery mechanism that's not visible to API clients? We could mention that much and not say more about how it's done.

Reviewer: +1, Yes, the communication between apiservers to share IPs is done "in secret" via etcd.

Author: But we still need to mention the `-peer-advertise-*` options that cluster admins can use to ensure that kube-apiservers are able to talk to each other?

Reviewer: Yep. I think the idea was to try to explain what those flags do by explaining the dataflow of the flag values to all the apiservers.

If these flags are unspecified, the kube-apiserver uses the value from either `--advertise-address` or
`--bind-address` flag. If those too, are unset, the host's default interface is used.

> ## Interoperability proxying
> 
> When you enable interoperability proxying, the [aggregation layer](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/apiserver-aggregation/) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Mixed version proxying

When you enable mixed version proxying, the [aggregation layer](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/apiserver-aggregation/) 
```

Author: oh missed this, thanks for catching!

loads a special filter that does the following:

* When a resource request reaches an API server that cannot serve that API (either because it is at a version pre-dating the introduction of the API or the API is turned off on the API server) the API server attempts to send the request to a peer API server that can serve the requested API. It does so by identifying API groups / versions / resources that the local server doesn't recognise, and tries to proxy those requests to a peer API server that is capable of handling the request.
* If the peer API server fails to respond, the _source_ API server responds with 503("Service Unavailable") error.

### How it works under the hood

> When a kube-apiserver receives a resource request, it first checks which API servers can serve the requested resource. This check happens using the internal [`StorageVersion` API].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an API Server receives a resource request, it first checks which API servers can serve the requested resource. This check happens using the internal [`StorageVersion` API].
```

For consistency. I don't care if we use "kube-apiserver" everywhere, so long as we pick a term and stick with it.

Reviewer 2: BTW, I don't want to be _too_ consistent. The peer might not be called `kube-apiserver` so long as it can pass conformance.

> * If the resource is known to the local API server (ex: `GET /api/v1/pods/some-pod`), the request is handled locally. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the resource is known to the API server that received the request (ex: `GET /api/v1/pods/some-pod`), the request is handled locally. 
```

Reader's might not realize to interpret "local" to mean the request receiving api server...
